

# Creator Pro 2 Vent Attachment for Hood

## Description

An adapter to easily attach a vent hose to the back of the Creator Pro 2's existing hood and fully vent all fumes. Does not require modifying the hood or the Creator Pro 2 in any manner.

Designed in OpenSCAD and uses the Round Anything library to design it entirely with smooth edges. The code for the adapter is located on GitHub at: https://github.com/twfry/creator_pro_2_vent

After connecting the adapter to the back of the Creator Pro 2's hood, use the following to ensure all fumes are fully vented:

1. Cover all of the openings around the enclosure with masking or duct tape
2. Use an inline vent fan to suck air through the vent opening and attached hoses.

By reducing the number of openings for air to escape from the enclosure with tape and using a powerful enough vent fan all air will be drawn into the Creator Pro 2 through any remaining opening by the air being drawn into the vent by the fan. I used a basic 4 inch inline vent fan for this (AC Infinity RAXIAL S4 with 106 CFM, $29 off amazon) and found this creates enough air flow to keep the room fully fume free, or at least free enough that I no longer noticed any remaining fumes. That said 100 CFM is likely the lowest airflow that will work and a larger fan will work better, I do plan to upgrade to a 6 inch fan with more air flow in a bit.

Parts for both 4 inch and 3 inch hoses are uploaded. Additional sizes can easily be generated by adjusting the outer diameter parameter in the linked OpenSCAD code.

## Printing

Printing

Parts should be printed as oriented in the stl files and shown in the preview images. 

The adaptor is split into two separate parts for printing:

* `vent_right.scad` - Right side part which is the same size regardless of the vent hose size. 
* `vent_left.scad` - Left side part which has different sizes for different vent hoses. Included are parts for 4 inch and 3 inch vent hoses. Additional sizes can be regenerated by adjusting a parameter in the OpenSCAD code linked below.

The left side part can be printed with no supports by orienting it face down. 

The right side part needs supports only under the flat bottom of the vent, which are a few millimeters from the bed. The rest of the vent is angled and does not require supports. I found any support in FlashPrint worked fine. The rest of the part uses angles to prevent the need for supports anywhere else. 

## Assembly

After printing the two parts are joined together and then attached to the opening at the back of the Creator Pro 2's hood. 

The left and right parts are joined together using two M3 sized nuts/bolts. The nut opening on the part is hex shaped to fit the nut. It helps to first press the nut into the right side part first so that is holds in place while screwing the bolt to join the parts together. There is an insert which both aligns the parts and ensures no fumes escape through the joint. 

## Design

The adapter was designed in OpenSCAD which allows for generating new parts with new dimensions by simply adjusting individual parameters. For example, the diameter of the pipe attachment can easily be changed from 3 inches, 4 inches, 6 inches, etc. by modifying one parameter and the parts will be fully regenerated for the new size.

The OpenSCAD code is published here so the adaptor can be adjusted if needed: https://github.com/twfry/creator_pro_2_vent

## OpenSCAD Files

* `vent_right.scad` - The right side part to print
* `vent_left.scad` - The left side part to print
* `vent_assembly.scad` - Shows the two parts next to each other, used to verify alignment after changes. 
* `vent.scad` - Utility modules to buils the parts
* `vent.parameters` - Utility modules to buils the parts

## Print Files

The following are pre-generated files for printing with a high number of facets for very smooth edges. 

* `Output/vent_right.stl` - The right side part to print
* `Output/vent_left_3_inch.stl` - The left side part to print for a 3 inch vent hose
* `Output/vent_left_4_inch.stl` - The left side part to print for a 4 inch vent hose





